# FilmLA
## Andrea Mejia-Madriz

### Project Description:
I want to create an application that delivers historical information about the LA film and telivision scene, using user’s location services and giving them alerts about films that have been shot in their location throughout history. User’s can filter the information by genre and decide how often they receive notifications. 
I moved to LA four years ago, and I’ve always been interested in learning about the city. Ever since my first visits to Los Angeles, I witnessed the Star Tours trucks carting groups of tourists around and showing them film landmarks. These tours are often expensive, inaccurate, or focused on a particular movie. When I was a tourist in LA, I myself wished there had been a user-friendly resource I could have accessed in order to receive historical information about my favorite films within the city that was accessible, cheap, and accurate. 
The biggest issue with current tools is that there is such a breadth of information spread over so many databases that finding desired information becomes difficult. Consolidating all these resources into one application would make accessing historical information easier and more enjoyable for users. Adding location services and the ability to filter information by interest would keep users from having to sift through huge amounts of information to find what’s relevant. If historical information was more accessible, customizable, and user friendly, more people would be interested in learning it. 
#### To complete this project, I will follow the user-centered design process, which involves conducting field and user research, doing a literature review of pre-existing sources, personas and usage scenarios, wireframing, low and high fidelity prototyping, and usability testing. I will employ the method of iterative design, in which user feedback is in a constant feedback loop with the design of my application. 

### Expected Outcome:
The outcome of my project will be web documentation of the design process, a high-fidelity prototype of the application, as well as a final research paper explaining the project. 

### Tentative Project Timeline: 

Week | Assignments
------------ | -------------
2 (4/6-4/12) | Literature Review
3 (4/13-4/19) | Planning User Research
4 (4/20-4/26) | Analysis of User Research
5 (4/27-5/3) | Storytelling
6 (5/4-5/10) | Low-Fidelity Prototyping of FilmLA
7 (5/11-5/17) | Interface Design & Impression Test
8 (5/18-5/24) | Interactive Prototype of FilmLA
9 (5/25-5/31) | Usability Testing
10 (5/1-6/7) | Final Report

# FilmLA: Literature Review

  Film tourism is a popular form of tourism that evolved from the idea of hallmark events as tourist attractions, in which major events that normally have short exposure periods are used as a way to draw the attention of tourists to a location using their inimitability and timely significance. (Riley and Van Doren) Cinephiles travel to the locations where their favorite movies were filmed in an attempt to experience the emotions and visuals associated with the film over and over again. In “Repeating Visions: Hitchcock’s Vertigo and San Francisco,” Blackwood posits that locations are inherently changed in geographical space when they become a part of film history, and this change leads to a renewed attraction in the location. One city that has experienced this effect to a far greater extent than most others is the city of Los Angeles, which sees tons of visitors every year thanks to its rich and salient history in films. Although guided tours specializing on one particular film exist throughout the city, these tend to lack customizability, be costly, and be narrow in their scope. There is currently a lack of cost free, personal, and customizable resources for cinephiles touring the city of Los Angeles to utilize in order to educate themselves on the cinematic history of their surroundings.

  Throughout recent years, the integration of technological tools in education has rapidly increased. Two emergent technologies that seem to be particularly useful in an educational context are augmented reality and location-based services. Augmented reality has been proven to improve learning performance, motivate users to want to learn, and encourage interaction and collaboration when implemented in learning environments. (Bacca) Although the implementation of location-based services has not been as extensively researched, its utilization in combination with augmented reality in the form of a smart phone application that teaches historical information of an area could help to increase engagement and user-friendliness. Through my project, I would like to research how location-based services, augmented reality, and user-centered design techniques can be utilized in order to efficiently and captivatingly deliver Los Angeles film history in real time for tourist consumption.   

# FilmLA: User Research
  The main activity in which my application would support users is when visiting and touring around Los Angeles. The need satisfied through this activity is the need for social belonging. When people take part in film tourism, hunting out the locations where some of their favorite films and scenes were shot, they often do so in order to feel more connected to the films that they love, to see themselves as a part in that film, and, most importantly, to relive and reinforce their connection with that film in the real world. (Cunningham) Currently, satisfying this need would require extensive research to be done through a variety of different sources before embarking on a trip. It would also require that much of the trip be planned around visiting the film locations you want to visit. Satisfying this need could also potentially require signing up for a tour that takes you on a sightseeing trip for filming locations of a particular movie, but these tend to be both costly and limited in scope. My application would allow for tourists to choose the destinations that they are interested in around Los Angeles and then find significant film locations during their visit with no extra effort or planning needed. This would save tourists a significant amount of time and stress, as they would not have to conduct extensive independent research ahead of time and could instead visit the places they wish to and find interesting film sites wherever they go. This would also allow them to plan the trip that they want to take, instead of being limited and only visiting the locations that they find interesting pieces of film history in ahead of time. My application would also eliminate the cost that is associated with signing up for film tours and also allow tourists to expand the types of film sets they see. Instead of being constrained to only visiting locations that fit the focus of whatever tour they are signed up for, they can see sites from various different films, genres, and time periods that interest them. 
  
  My target users are cinephiles that are interested in viewing the film sites of their favorite movies. These cinephiles could both be tourists or native Angelinos that are touring around Los Angeles in an attempt to experience their favorite film locations. They can be of any age group or expertise level, but will be required to own a smartphone and have the basic knowledge and ability to download and operate phone applications. Users would do this activity while traveling around Los Angeles. In order to complete the activity, users would pull out their phones and open up the application, and then use the map function to see what film locations are nearby to their current location. Then, the user could click on the location to see an augmented reality filter superimposed over their surroundings that shows how the location appeared in the film, and also to receive additional information about the location and scenes that were shot there. 
  
  For my user research, I decided it would be best to do an interview with direct observation, especially because of the current situation with COVID-19 making it difficult to observe people in person. I will be using hypothetical situations in which the user will be planning a trip to visit film locations, and both observe and ask questions about how they would go about planning and executing such a trip. 
  
  Below is the script that I will utilize when conducting user interviews in order to gain more insight as to the needs and desires of our intended users. Because of COVID-19 and the current self distancing rules, I will be interviewing my roommate. I will be asking my friend to plan a hypothetical trip to visit film sites from their favorite movie, and will intervene occasionally in order to ensure that I am getting the information I am in need of. 
## [Click here for interview script](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1PR3_favaV3D3A4HVBugveDd5hbhP6FEjaxC4I1heFsY/edit?usp=sharing) | [Click here for questionnaire used](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSeuQY1IZUJxcUMwyUd_kj2n-j0te283AnriS5QSS6EVPjx0eA/viewform?usp=sf_link)
